---
title: Gatsby | Open Source Static Site Generator for Faster Websites
description: Gatsby is a React-based open source static site generator. Built for Performance, scalability and security. Collaborate, build and deploy faster with Gatsby
singlepageh1title: Build Speedy Websites with Gatsby
singlepageh2title: Gatsby sites built fast by design. Ships with a sophisticated caching system which loads websites much faster.
Shortdescriptionlistingpage: Gatsby is a free and open source static site generator framework based on React that helps developers build blazing fast websites and apps.
linktitle: Gatsby
Imagetext:  Free Blogging Platform 
draft: false
weight: 8
layout: "single"
GithubLink: https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby

HomePage_TitleText: Open Source Blogging Software

ListingPage_MenuImage_TitleText: 
ListingPage_MenuImage_AltText: Gatsby is multi purpose software and it fits in both blogging and CMS.
ListingPage_Link_TitleText: 

SinglePage_HeaderImage_TitleText: 
SinglePage_HeaderImage_AltText: Gatsby Open Source Software
SinglePage_MenuImage_TitleText: 
SinglePage_MenuImage_AltText: Gatsby is the easiest and powerful blogging platform.

---

### Overview

A static site generator is essentially a set of tools for building static websites based on a set of input files. It takes your site contents, applies it to some template and generate purely static HTML files ready to be hosted on any hosting platform. Reading information from a database on every page load for a big website makes the user experience slow, though websites generated by the SSGs serve the pre compiled files to the browsers which increases the load times big time.

Gatsby is a free and open source static site generator framework based on React that helps developers build blazing fast websites and apps. It also provides a deployment platform. Therefore, it lets you preview, build and collaborate your Gatsby site or application.

Gatsby is quick and easy to setup and get start. With Gatsby you can build a complete website in the time it usually takes to build a prototype. Not only the development is fast with the Gatsby. Page loads are also very fast as Gatsby sites are fast by design.

It only loads whats required for the first page of your application. As result, this makes the site loads as fast as possible. Once loaded, it prefetches the resources for other pages in background. This prefetching makes the site feel lot faster as user click on the navigation and move between pages.

Gatsby takes away all the worries about performance of the website and let the team focus on the creating contents. It has a sophisticated built-in caching system which makes the websites load incredibly faster than other static site generator frameworks.

Recently more and more static site generators are gaining popularity and hence there are a number of alternatives to Gatsby’s are available like Jekyll, Hugo and Next.js
