---
title: Jekyll | Open Source Static Site Generator
description: Jekyll turns markdown contents into static html pages which simplifies creating project docs, user guides, websites and blogs by using appropriate templates.
singlepageh1title: 100% Free Static Site Generator Software to Generate HTML Websites
singlepageh2title: Jekyll is a static web page generator and hosts content on GitHub for free, as GitHub Pages are powered by Jekyll. Create contents in markups to start blog or site
Shortdescriptionlistingpage: Jekyll is a static web page generator and hosts content on GitHub for free, as GitHub Pages are powered by Jekyll. Create contents in markups to start blog or site
linktitle: Jekyll
Imagetext:  Free Blogging Platform 
draft: false
weight: 3
layout: "single"
GithubLink: https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll

---

#### Overview

A static site generator is an application that takes your site contents, applies it to some template and generate purely static HTML files ready to be hosted on any hosting platform. Before the Dynamic CMSs like WordPress, Joomla and Drupal internet was all about static websites. All these dynamic content management systems improved the management of the content but at the cost of simplicity and speed.

Reading information from a database on every page load for a big website makes the user experience slow, though websites generated by the SSGs serve the pre compiled files to the browsers which increases the load times big time.

Security is one of the biggest concern with all these modern web Content Management Systems as they support third party plugins and there is always a chance of hacking as they execute server side codes. However in a static setup there is no server side processing involve as the content just delivers without any processing.

Traditional CMSs makes it difficult to customize your content as they require additional plugins and extensions to scale up. Though SSGs offers more freedom and flexibility to developers to manage the contents.

Recently more and more static site generators are gaining popularity and hence there are a number of alternatives to Jekyll’s are available like Gatsby, Hugo and Next.js